contributing KEPs in SIG Node: best practices (#8005)
kubernetes/community: sig-node/CONTRIBUTING.md

Welcome!

Thank you for your interest in contributing to SIG Node. SIG Node is one of the biggest SIGs in Kubernetes.
Reliability and performance of millions of nodes running critical applications in production rely on a quality of your contribution.
The diversity of workloads, environments, and scale SIG Node needs to support make every code change risky as every side effect needs to be evaluated.
And the contribution is and realistically can be only evaluated by a small set of maintainers.

Please make sure you understand and accept the challenge. Contributing instructions are designed to help you.

## For Kubernetes Code Contributions

Read the [Kubernetes Contributor Guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/contributors/guide#contributor-guide).

If you aspire to grow scope in the SIG, please review the [SIG Node contributor ladder](./sig-node-contributor-ladder.md) for SIG specific guidance.

### For Enhancements

> Find out if [your thing is an enhancement a.k.a KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/?tab=readme-ov-file#is-my-thing-an-enhancement).

Reviewer: A good way to do that is to open and issue and get feedback from node reviewers and approvers. You can even come present your idea at a weekly sig-node meeting.

Author: ```suggestion
Find out if [your thing is an enhancement a.k.a KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/?tab=readme-ov-file#is-my-thing-an-enhancement). A good way to do that is to open and issue and get feedback from node reviewers and approvers. You can even come present your idea at a weekly sig-node meeting.
```

If you plan to contribute an enhancement, please prepare yourself for at least 1 year of engagement.
In order to progress a KEP via all stability stages, at a minimum 3 Kubernetes releases needs to be worked on.
SIG Node expects contributors to commit to land a KEP to GA stage to avoid [permanent betas](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/08/21/moving-forward-from-beta/#avoiding-permanent-beta).
It is always surprising how much work is needed to productize the feature after it is seemingly complete.

If you are not ready for this commitment, you can often team up with other contributors in community or contribute
to KEP driven by somebody else.

SIG Node enhancements are available:
- Committed KEPs [directory](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node)
- All open KEPs [tracking issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Asig%2Fnode+)

> What is following are some best practices how to approach KEP development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some best practices how to approach KEP development:
```

*"Implementing a big feature on an example of a Sidecar container KEP"*
([Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3iV8E8EDUA), [Slides](https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/kcsna2023/a0/KCS-NA-2023-ppt.pdf)).

#### Before Starting

  * **Prove the need**: Clearly articulate the problem the KEP addresses, identify the target audience, and demonstrate the community-wide benefits.  
  * **Secure sponsorship and reviews**: Find sponsors, reviewers, and approvers early in the process to ensure alignment and avoid delays.  
  * **Show commitment**: Demonstrate dedication to the KEP's success by actively working on its implementation and ensuring code quality.  
  * **Manage expectations**: The KEP process takes time, anticipate at least two releases for beta and four for GA.

At this stage the expectation is that the proposal is written in general-enough terms as a Google Doc for easy commenting and fast collaborative editing.
Sharing the design document with `dev@kubernetes.io` for commenting and with SIG members `kubernetes-sig-node@googlegroups.com` for commenting or in some cases editing is a good practice.

> It is also very helpful to attend SIG Node weekly meeting to present your proposal. Most of the time meeting agenda is open for any proposals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also very helpful to attend SIG Node weekly meeting to present your proposal. Most of the time meeting agenda is open to discuss any proposals.
```

  * **Consider the bigger picture**: Illustrate how the KEP fits into the existing Kubernetes design and how it will handle future requests.  
  * **Document decisions**: Record all design decisions, including pros, cons, and responsible individuals.  
  * **Address potential misuse**: Anticipate potential abuse or misuse scenarios and design the API to mitigate them.  
  * **Engage reviewers**: Utilize SIG experts for API pre-reviews and PRR pre-reviews to gain support and streamline the review process.

Kubernetes API is a main interface many users experience Kubernetes. API approvers are often the most experienced
community members, who can help ensure the feature fit Kubernetes best practices, will not break compatibility,
and will fit nicely with other Kubernetes capabilities. Even if use cases were approved by SIG Node approvers,
API approvers may reject the proposal and ask to redesign it.

Some KEPs may go back and forth between use cases and API design for many iterations.
This often happens when use cases are not described completely or a lot of context is lost in written feedback.

> If the KEP is going in those circles, the recommendation is to request the meeting between SIG Approvers and API approvers driven by KEP author.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the KEP is going in those circles, the recommendation is to request a meeting between SIG Approvers and API approvers driven by KEP author.
```

Welcome!

Thank you for your interest in contributing to SIG Node. SIG Node is one of the biggest SIGs in Kubernetes.
Reliability and performance of millions of nodes running critical applications in production rely on the quality of your contribution(s).
The diversity of workloads, environments, and the scale SIG Node needs to support makes every code change risky as all the side effects need to be evaluated.

> And the contribution can realistically only be evaluated by a small set of maintainers.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a huge fan of this clause and sentence

```
as all the side effects need to be evaluated.
And the contribution can realistically only be evaluated by a small set of maintainers.
```

I think the broader point you're trying to make is the bar is very high for a contributor and maintainers have low bandwidth to fully work through all the possible reprocussions of a contribution. I think that's true and it can be spelled out, but I think it's tricky to word it without fully discouraging contributions you know?

Reviewer 2: plus the first clause 
```
The diversity of workloads, environments, and the scale SIG Node needs to support makes every code change risky
```
 captures that intent

Author: removed

Please make sure you understand and are up to the challenge. The contributing instructions are designed to help you.

## For Kubernetes Code Contributions

Read the [Kubernetes Contributor Guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/contributors/guide#contributor-guide).

If you aspire to grow scope in the SIG, please review the [SIG Node contributor ladder](./sig-node-contributor-ladder.md) for SIG specific guidance.

### For Enhancements

Find out if [your thing is an enhancement a.k.a KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/?tab=readme-ov-file#is-my-thing-an-enhancement).

> A good way to do that is to open and issue and get feedback from node reviewers and approvers. You can even come present your idea at a weekly sig-node meeting.

Reviewer 2: SIG Node* ?

If you plan to contribute an enhancement, please prepare yourself for at least 1 year of engagement.

> A KEP takes at least 3 kubernetes releases to move from alpha to beta to GA. If there are API / kubelet skew considerations, it may take even longer. 

Reviewer 2: I think this is now 4, as beta is commonly 2 stages now

> SIG Node expects contributors to commit to land a KEP to GA stage to avoid [permanent betas](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/08/21/moving-forward-from-beta/#avoiding-permanent-beta).

Reviewer 2: WDYT of 

`SIG Node expects that contributors commit to taking a KEP to GA stage to avoid`

> It is always surprising how much work is needed to productize the feature after it seems complete.

Reviewer 2: what do you mean by productize here?
